# Self-Assessment Essay - Anthony Jantzen

As team lead, I oversaw the other three team members. My focus was on management, documentation, and support. In the fall, I met with the others every week, as a group or individually, to brainstorm ideas. I supported research efforts on the conceptual and technical aspects of the project, and I spearheaded all efforts for the weekly assignments. In the spring, I again met with the team to ensure adequate progress was being made, as well as completed assignments and documented the project. Additionally, I provided development and quality assurance support and performed numerous capture tests.

Last fall, I identified a few skills that I thought would be useful for this project. Software development, computer networking, and software engineering were among the technical skills. I was able to apply my knowledge of software development to assist in project coding efforts and in performing unit and integration tests. Computer networking was able to be applied in the network setup of the access points and the packet capture of devices. My software engineering knowledge allowed me to effectively manage the project and create documentation that was useful for the team. As for what I learned through senior design, I got more practice with managing a team which is what I hope to do someday as well as some exposure to testing frameworks for quality assurance which was brand new to me. Finally, I think my biggest success was also my biggest challenge: making sure all team members were on the same page. In the end, it all worked out and we were able to coordinate a working demo for the senior design expo. But finding time for everyone to meet at once was difficult, and I had to mitigate this by sometimes meeting with members individually.