Self-Assesment Essay - Matt Ihlenfield
======================================

## Part A
My part of the project consisted mostly of architecture planning, research, and writing code for location calculation. For architecture planning I sat down with my group, figured out our requirements, and then came up with a data pipeline. The initial plan changed as we discovered issues with it during development and ran into time constraints, but the core of the articture plan stayed the same. Once we had an architecture planned out I began doing research into prior work. This mostly involved reading white papers on the subject of wifi based trilateration. I looked into several different methods of wifi based trilateration and in the end decided to go with a signal strength based method. From there I was able to start writing code to do the trilateration. In doing so I used several open source libraries and found online examples.

This project helped me to develop several different skills. The beginning of the project gave me experience in the planning of software projects as well as software architecture design. I gained a significant amount knowldge about wifi and the 802.11 protocol while doing research on wifi based trilateration. This research also helped me to develop my technical reading skills. The actual development of the software presented us with several different problems which we were able to solve. One of the biggest was figuring out how to speed up packet processing, as the location processing and packet processing modules were too slow when flooded with packets. We were able to mitigate the issue by making our packet processing module lazy, and by filtering out more packets that we didn't have any use for. Overall I think the project was a success. We were able to build a tool that could generate an approximate location of a device using only the wifi traffic that the device generates.

