# Self-Assessment Essay - Patrick Millott
My individual contribution to the project was in the packet processing module and in testing. Our project creates an estimated location of a device through data retrieved in packets. During our initial analysis last Fall, when we decided to do this project, I began to research different methods of dissecting packets and different protocols on which we could gather the data we need. During my research, I discovered Scapy which is a Python library that supports packet processing. At the same time, I began doing further research into RobotFramework which is a testing framework that I had used at work. I decided to convince the group to utilize RobotFramework for its expansive output, easy to read test scripts, and detailed logging.

Initially, we were worried about efficiency using Python as an interpreted language vs C or C++ as a compiled language. However, during tests using Python, we determined that the speed up using a compiled language wouldn’t be worth losing the support of the packet library, Scapy, that we were planning on using. Among the issues we ran into, the most critical was through using airodump to sniff the packets. Initially, we planned on using a tool called airodump which supported sniffing packets on different wireless channels. However, after our initial packet capture for testing data, we discovered that the radio headers were excluded from the captured data. At this point, we decided to use tcpdump to capture packets on a single channel which was determined prior to a packet capture based on which channel had the most traffic. This project was an excellent opportunity for me to learn more about network protocols and better develop my skills developing with Python - both skills which will apply to my full time job post-graduation in Cyber Security.
