# ABET Constraints Essay

### Economic
Based on the current standing of our project, there are some financial limitations to our solution. We do not have a formal budget outlined, but we have hardware requirements that must be met. These include the access points, central server, and client devices used for testing which are detailed in our design diagrams. Funds for the hardware are being supplied personally by team members at the moment. However, our solution is very similar to a proposal outlined by Northrop Grumman Corporation, so we may reach out to the contact listed to see if we can secure funds. Because of this cost, we've designed our solution to use only custom built or open source software to keep the software development costs low. We plan on setting up a network in our own homes to test the solution, but we may seek permission to utilize UC networks to test on a larger scale.

### Legal
Legally, our project could possibly run into issues. Looking at our user stories, we do not foresee any issues arising from the IT specialist or warehouse manager scenarios. This is because they deal with private or enterprise use cases and the users would have a right to know the information we (they) will be gathering on devices. The conference planner scenario on the other hand could be diving into some gray area because it deals more with public networks. In the U.S., this form of location tracking might not be strictly illegal but we could foresee individuals taking issue with it all the same. Outside of the U.S., European privacy laws (GDPR) are extremely strict, so any form of personally identifiable information gathered could violate these policies.

### Security
From a security standpoint, there are certainly concerns that our solution faces. Any form of computer or computing infrastructure is subject to cyber attacks today. Only the role identified in the user stories should have access to the information identified in our solution. However, when dealing with a public network scenario, there is the threat of a random target device sending malicious packets that could be picked up by our access points. Our solution will need to take this into consideration and ensure these packets are filtered out. Additionally, the privacy concerns revolving around the information that is being gathered presents a possible security vulnerability as discussed in the legal section.

### Social
Socially, our solution has several benefits. The user stories we have identified only deal with corporations or organizations. However, the enhancements seen by these groups we believe will trickle down to a broader area in society. For example, the conference planner could use our solution to analyze movement patterns of conference attendees or the popularity of certain exhibits or workshops. Consequently, the planner could adjust exhibit locations or other conference items to reduce wait times or relieve congestion in the facility, thereby enhancing the attendee experience. Additionally, our solution could improve the efficiency of the IT specialist, allowing them to address other pressing issues for company employees. As a result, this reduces response times and improves employee sentiment for the company.
