Matt Ihlenfield<br />
Senior Design 1<br />

## Self Assesment Essay

Argus is a project which aims to solve the problem of inaccurate indoor position tracking. We plan to take the latest in wireless technology and position tracking research and combine it with a friendly user interface to create a product that will supply users with easy to use and accurate position readings. Argus has a variety of use cases, such as tracking product positions in a warehouse, identifying popular or crowded hotspots at a conference, locating rogue wireless devices in restricted areas, and many more. More importantly, Argus is an opportunity for our team to apply the knowledge we've accrued while at UC on a challenging and interesting problem.

While at UC each team member has taken classes and participated in learning experiences which have helped to prepare us for this task. In my experience three classes have been particularly useful: Introduction to Operating Systems, Introduction to Networks and Cloud Computing, and Software Engineering. Operating Systems introduced me to the low level concepts and algorithms that allow operating systems to function. Most relevant to this project was the class's section on networking, in which I learned the basics of network communication via sockets. In Introduction to Networking and Cloud Computing I had the opportunity to take an even deeper dive into network communication; we learned about the different layers of the common networking stack, how they operate, and how they are able to pass information to each other. While these classes showed me how complex systems worked, Software Engineering show me how to go about building complex systems in an organized and efficent way. It also allowed me to put what I'd learned into practice via a fairly complex project that lasted the duration of the class.

I was also able to put what I learned into practice while working in a few different co-op positions. My first position, as a Web Developer at Matco Tools, served as in introduction to real world software development. I learned the basics of web development, how to use version control systems, how to work on a software project on a small team, and I became acquainted with the joys of locating bugs in massive code bases. I then carried what I learned at Matco over into a new position as an Applications Developer at UPS Airlines. At UPS I took part in a much larger and more formal software development process. I continued to develop technical skills while working on projects in web development, large scale message passing systems, and automated testing. After working two semesters at UPS I moved on to my current position as a Software Engineer at ICR, where I develop code for specialzed embedded systems. My experiences as ICR are likely the most relevant to the technical aspects of developing Argus, as I've also been able to work on projects that deal with low level network protocols while at ICR.

Just about all of the skills I've developed while at UC will help during the implementation of Argus. While we're still working out design plans for Argus, we plan to implement it as follows. We will be locating nearby target devices by listening for the wifi packets that the devices send out and using the information from the packets to triangulate the devices. To estimate the distance of the target device from our listending device we plan to use a hybrid of two methods: one which uses signal strength to estimate distance and one which use the time that the packet took to travel from the device to our listening device. We plan to use the the time based method as much as possible as it provides the most accuracy, but we may need to fall back to the signal strength method when devices haven't provided enough data to estimate. Both methods require that we have three listening devices that recieve the same data from a target. That way each of the three listening devices can calculate their distance from the target device and we can use the three distances to triangulate the target device location.

We plan to then take that device location data, as well as any other useful data we've gathered, and display it using an interactive map on a webpage that shows the target device locations in a room or just relative to other known locations. The map will show the user where the target devices are, what kind of devices the targets are, where they are moving, and more. We hope to be able to provide the user with device locations that are accurate to within three meters of the actual target device location.
