Kyle Trout<br />
Dr. Annexstein<br />
Senior Design I<br />

##### Self Assessment

The plan for our project is to build a network manager for those who are less technologically savvy. It will allow a user to deny access to devices they do not recognize, while permitting friendly devices. They will also be able to view all devices connected to the network and other indicators regarding the state of the network in general. The project will be deployed as a mobile application as well as a desktop or web application. This will allow users to view the state of their network on whichever device they currently have on hand. The courses and experiences over the course of my college career have developed the skills needed to succeed in this project.<br />

There are a few classes that I have taken that have prepared me for this project. The first of which is (EECE 3093C) Software Engineering. This was a project-based course that required documenting and developing an application from the ground up. I learned a lot about the documentation side of development in this course, as well as working collaboratively with others. The second course is (CS 4092) Database Design and Development. In this course, I learned about how to properly structure and store information in databases, which will be integral to our network manager. The final course is one I am taking right now, (CS 5167) User Interface I. I hope to learn how to make an application intuitive and accessible throughout my time in this class. While these courses have been helpful, the opportunities I had while on co-op have been especially important.<br />

Having co-oped at four different companies, I was able to narrow down where exactly I fit in the field of Computer Science. The first two companies I worked at, Assurex Health and Siemens PLM Software, gave me a look into web development and software development, respectively. Being more interested in web development, I pursued a position at Balluff Inc. as a Technical Displays Co-op. I independently built several different small-scale web applications during my time at this company. This process gave me immense experience with debugging and problem-solving on my own, as there were no technical employees I could rely on for assistance. My position at Balluff also solidified my understanding of how all parts of a web application are connected. The other co-op that has prepared me for this project was at Outlier Technologies, where I worked as a JavaScript Application Developer. At Outlier, I worked with one other developer who was my manager. It was here that I gained experience working on a small team with a iterative development workflow. We had to constantly push out new features to clients and diagnose bugs they ran into. The combination of both of these co-ops will help me to efficiently work with others and pinpoint possible bugs in our application.<br />

The approach for our solution came from a lack of similar applications currently available. While some tools exist, they do not have all the features that our project will provide. They are also confusing to use for those who may not have an interest in this area. Our solution will bridge the gap between inexperienced users and network security. This is where my motivation comes from, as I am interested in learning more about network security while building an application that allows other users to protect themselves more easily. If I have done a good job, our application will be intuitive and accessible to any potential user.<br />

I am also interested in the technologies our project will be built with. Whether it be using a cross-platform framework like Electron or a service worker to create a Progressive Web App, our application will utilize modern technologies used in real-world solutions. This has yet to be decided, but either choice will be an accomplishment for me. Learning about building native applications will be a new experience, as I have only built web applications in the past. Though the Progressive Web App route will allow me to gain more in depth experience with service workers and progressive enhancement. I have limited knowledge of these currently, so working with them on a project in a more formal environment will be very beneficial.
